Make the release workflow more resilient (#4728)
astral-sh/ruff: How_to_Release.md

Reviewer: `RELEASE.md` for title consistency? Or should we just put this in `CONTRIBUTING.md`, which is effectively our development guide? (It also includes benchmarking instructions, as an example.)

# Creating a new release

This is a guide how to create a new ruff release

1. Update the version with `rg 0.0.269 --files-with-matches | xargs sed -i 's/0.0.269/0.0.270/g'`
1. Update [BREAKING_CHANGES.md](BREAKING_CHANGES.md)
1. Create a PR with the version and BREAKING_CHANGES.md updated
1. Merge the PR

> 1. Run the release workflow with the tag (without starting `v`) as input. Make sure main has your

Reviewer 2: Should it be possible to provide an optional commit to the release workflow that it then uses as the version to publish? This could be useful to retry a release after something has been merged. But we could also support this by reverting all changes and then releasing

Author: This doesn't work like i would like it to, i reverted the change.

The main problem with this is that we run the workflow on code from a different commit than the release.yml is from, and this could become really strange. I'd instead prefer to merge new changes to main and then run on those.

> 1. Run the release workflow with the tag (without starting `v`) as input. Make sure main has your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the release workflow with the version number (without starting `v`) as input. Make sure main has your
```

Nit: Rephrase to version number? I first thought I would need to create the tag myself and then provide its name.

   merged PR as last commit
1. The release workflow will do the following:
   1. Build all the assets. If this fails (even though we tested in step 4), we haven’t tagged or
      uploaded anything, you can restart after pushing a fix
   1. Upload to pypi

>    1. Create a git tag (from pyproject.toml) and push git tag. We create the git tag only here
>       because we can't change it ([#4468](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff/issues/4468)), so
>       we want to make sure everything up to and including publishing to pypi worked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. Create and push the git tag (from pyproject.toml). We create the git tag only here
      because we can't change it ([#4468](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff/issues/4468)), so
      we want to make sure everything up to and including publishing to pypi worked.
```

Nit: Document the tag name? What does *from pyproject.toml* mean?

   1. Attach artifacts to draft GitHub release
   1. Trigger downstream repositories. This can fail without causing fallout, it is possible (if
      inconvenient) to trigger the downstream jobs manually

> 1. Create release notes in GitHub UI (<https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff/releases/new>)

Reviewer: Does this also include promoting out of "draft"?
